well the intensification of Israeli
operations in Gaza is driving the
increasing civilian death toll the
territories Hamas run Health Ministry
says more than 10,300 people have been
killed many of them
children scenes like this have become
all too common in Gaza over the past
month children are bearing the brunt of
this
conflict Israel says it is targeting
Hamas militants High among
civilians thousands of Palestinians are
trying to get away from the combat in
Northern Gaza using whatever means of
Transport they can
find they're fleeing to what they hope
is
safety but that is far from
guaranteed day after day we are hearing
from our colleagues that who even those
who have fled that the south is not safe
uh we've had colle colleagues lose
family members in the South including
one of our colleagues Amal whose
seven-year-old son khed was killed in an
air strike on Rafa a couple of weeks ago
uh and and what we're hearing in
addition is not just is it not safe in
the South but similar to the north
people now are struggling to find basic
necessities uh food clean water
um uh even waiting in line five six
hours a day just to get half a portion
of
bread
these two brothers survived a blast at a
refugee camp in central
Gaza in an area where the Israeli Army
had advised people to go for their
safety forther South thousands of
displaced have been Sheltering at this
un
School
we're still headed towards the
unknown no one knows where things are
going or how long the war will
continue we've left our homes our houses
have been
destroyed and we are struggling in the
streets according to the UN almost 1.5
million people have been displaced
across the Gaza Strip since October
7th now the aid agency Care
International has been operating in Gaza
for decades their Regional director for
the Palestinian territories hea TV is
based in the West Bank and she told me
more about the humanitarian situation in
the
territory um unfortunately the situation
we were since weeks uh raising the flag
that it is deteriorating unfortunately
we confirm that it's already
deteriorated um electricity is still cut
no fuel uh according to the testimony
from my colleagues there they were
waiting for the last drop of fuel or the
last bottle of gas we unfortunately
arrived to this point where they are
unable to find any fuel or gas uh they
are trying to use for instance wood to
bake uh bread but this is also very
risky for them because now access to
food is extremely difficult and
especially uh bread where they are
unable to find bread as as per the
announce announcement of the bo food
program had who declared and announced
that out of the 23 bakeries that they
used to support only one is working and
functioning now the medical system is
still under um under serving people
because of the huge demand and
requirements from from different areas
in the South and of course in the north
the situation is harder where um where
if there is a already huge lack in the
South it's and with the very limited uh
humanitarian assistance trucks entering
to the South it's there are no trucks
entering to the north so according to
testimonies from my colleagues families
and my family they are trying to find
food in different shapes and they could
not over the last two days right so a
desperation A desperate situation just
getting more and more desperate um on
fuel um Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says no fuel will be allowed
into Gaza and there will be no ceasefire
unless the hostages are released can you
see any way to meet gaza's humanitarian
needs without a ceasefire or even a
pause in
fighting unfortunately everything is
arriving to the end everyone now we used
to say that we are afraid of uh of
diseases spread due to lack of access to
water or access to contaminated water
now everyone is also very afraid and and
according to the Specialists from the
different un agencies they also say now
we add to the bombs and the potential
waterborne diseases the hunger and
thirst and and unfortunately even oppose
although anything is welcome even aose
would would mean that we will have very
limited time and very limited amounts of
uh assistance that we can distribute to
people ceasefire is the only way uh uh
where we can also accompanied with
consistent amount of humanitarian
assistance entering Gaza so far almost
500 something trucks entered which is
since October 21st and now and and
according to the estimation it
represents almost one day requirements
for the people to meet their basic needs
and adding to that horrific situation we
we have the UN saying the number of
Palestinians leaving Northern Gaza and
heading south is still increasing so I
would imagine that influx of thousands
into an already desperate situation can
only make things even
worse it's so true what you have just
said is is is also um something that we
all know will happen already the
shelters are overcrowded the resources
are very limited very shrunk uh
everything is is rationed and now with
the new uh uh with the new numbers new
people coming from the north to the
South this is going to exhaust the very
very rare and few resources that they
have we expect more people to be
sleeping outdoor more people using and
uh contaminated water more people to be
hungry unfortunately this is the
situation and and if if this is why we
continue asking for ceasefire and and
facilitation of access of enough and
safe distribution of humanitarian
assistance thank you so much for uh
joining us and outlining that desperate
situation so clearly IBA T from Care
International